After our first steps in the query editor, it's now time to go one step further,
let's see how we can bind our queries and create a new query out of that combination.
So we want to create a new query and the goal is to combine the information we have in those three queries
in that new query.
The good thing is Power BI
desktop has a great function that let's you do exactly that and this function can be found in the
home ribbon, then in the right part in the combined area and here, you have two options. You have merge queries,
we will talk about that later
and you have append queries. Now if you don't click directly onto that append queries name but onto that
little arrow right here,
you see the two options appear, append queries and append queries as new.
Now, first thing, what does append actually mean?
Append means nothing more than adding the queries below each other basically.
So let's say you have the first dataset,
this is the one where query starts and below that, you can add the second query.
So in our case, the dataset from 1950 - 1999 in the first rows and after that, the dataset from 2000
to 2049,
so that's what append means.
Now we have two options, append queries and append queries as new.
Now append queries would add a new query,
so one of the few queries we have to an existing query.
So if we say append queries and we do that to the 1950 - 1999 query, then this query will be changed
and I don't want that,
I want to keep our initial queries as unchanged as possible, to see in the end how we derived our data
step by step.
This is what we will use the append queries as new option because this will create a new query,
so we have four queries in the end.
Now in this menu, we can see two options again,
we can append two tables in that new query or three or more tables.
Now I want to use the three or more tables function, although this would be the correct one right here because
we could simply select the second and the third query to have all three queries to append right here
and press OK
and then we would have the new query
but I want to show you both. I want to show you the append queries as new function right here
and I want to do that with a query that consists of two queries and then we will use the append query
function in that new query to add the remaining, so the third query,
let's see how this works.
So I go back to two tables and now we have to define our primary table,
this is 1950 - 1999,
this is fine,
you could change that here of course as you prefer and you have to define the table to append to that
primary table
and this is also fine, so we can press OK.
So we now created a new query out of the two initial queries and everything is the same,
we have the same column names
so we have just one list with all of the data
and you can see that if you click on to that column for instance, so the time column, press onto that
arrow, press load more
and we have still blank rows by the way so we'll take care of that later
and if we scroll down now, we see that we have the data until 2049
so this worked. A short note maybe, in this case we had the same column names, so the identical column names.
If you combine queries with the append query function which have some different column names, then those
new columns would be added with the real values for those queries who really have the columns
and if you have the queries in that appended query which doesn't have that column, then it will be simply
null.
So you can also append queries if the column names are not totally identical but it's nicer to do it
like this because then you don't have that additional columns and that null values.
Now that we have that new query, let's append the third query,
the 2050 - 2100 query.
So I'll go to append queries again in the home ribbon, press that arrow, press now append queries and
now we can define what table we want to append and
we could also append more tables again but we don't need that right here
and we press onto that menu and select the third query, like this and we press OK
and now we added the third query. Let's quickly check that by clicking onto that arrow again and press load
more
and we also have N/A
so this is also something we have to take care of
and if we scroll down, we see that we now have the total data from 1950 - 2100 in one single new query.
So this looks good, what doesn't look good is the query name, append one,
that's not a good name for a query
so let's change that
and you have three options on how you can change the name.
So again, lots of options available in Power BI desktop.
The first option is to right-click on to the query right here and press rename,
now you could rename it first option.
I'm pressing escape and if you keep the query selected and press F2,
then you can also select that.
So those are two options,
the third option is if you go to the query column and highlight the name right here and
simply write
population combined maybe because that's what it is
and press enter and now you see the name also changed right here.
So this looks fine,
now we worked on the rows and we created a new query,
I think now it's time to take a closer look at the columns,
right?.
Let's do that in the next video.